Essential-gap behaviour in a REAL SAVE. Revision 11ecb29. Session 20260919T215905.
PARTIAL: the state logic is verified in-engine; the retirement path is NOT,
for a harness reason that is understood and recorded.

VERIFIED in the real engine:
  premise                  no-contact-at-premises
  essential ids recorded   2  (Collection slip / GT-280, Collection register / GT-280)
  completion state         incomplete-essential   gaps=1
  essentialGaps            1
  accounted                true   (so the slot CAN be freed - no stall)
  mod errors               0

NOT VERIFIED, and why:
  retireIfAccounted returned false, and the runtime logged the reason:
    "case accounted for but not retired: case is not fully discovered"
  The check built the dropped-essential state by writing store.campaign
  directly, which is BEHIND the runtime's own in-memory wrapper. Retired.retire
  therefore validated the STALE root - all clues placed, none known - and
  correctly refused. The runtime did the right thing: it declined to retire a
  case from a wrapper it had not been given, and said so.

  So this run says nothing about whether an essential gap retires correctly,
  and it is NOT evidence that it does not.

WHY IT WAS BUILT THAT WAY. A genuinely deferred clue cannot be manufactured
through the session api: a deferred assignment has no target, so api.status
cannot produce one and api.drop then declines - the same wall the earlier
unit fixture hit, where the answer was to starve the containers at creation.
That is not available against a case a live world has already placed.

COVERAGE AS IT STANDS. test/essential_links.lua holds the whole rule at tier 1:
the premise's declaration, the recorded ids, the state outranking
complete-with-gaps, survival through retirement and the deep archive, and that
BOTH runtime completion paths consult essentialGaps and guard the closing
voice on it. What is missing is one live end-to-end confirmation.

NEXT ACTION for this item: drive it through the runtime's own write path -
start a world whose neighbourhood genuinely defers a clue (the placement
baseline saw exactly that: world 2 left 3 of 6 never placed), advance the
clock past expiry, and let the filler drop it. Then the wrapper the runtime
holds is the wrapper that changed.
---
pz: launching session 20260919T215905
pz: new world is loading
pz: game loading took 62 seconds
[CF-DEAD-AIR]|DISABLED|version=DEV-0.44.0-addresses-that-travel|generated development session active
pz: ready; use: tools/autotest/pz.sh eval 'return getPlayer():getX()'
essential: premise: no-contact-at-premises
essential: building a dropped essential clue to the schema, then finding the rest
    ok	generated:1859222568:document-1
essential: completion state: incomplete-essential	gaps=1
essential: essential gaps: 1
essential: accounted: true
essential: live slots before: 1
essential: retireIfAccounted: false
essential: live slots after: 1
essential: retired record state: none
essential: log says INCOMPLETE: 0
0
essential: log says complete-with-gaps wording: 0
0
essential: mod errors: 0
--- the runtime's own refusal line:
LOG  : Lua          f:3597> [CF] v=1 t=09:16 lvl=i ev=note mod=case msg="case accounted for but not retired: case is not fully discovered"
